**F4 Continuing the Fight for Gender Equality**

*11 members*

Mover: Wera Hobhouse MP (Spokesperson for the Environment and Climate Change).

Summation: Christine Jardine MP (Spokesperson for Work and Pensions).

Conference notes that:

1. In the UK in 2016, items marketed specifically at women were 37 per cent
   more expensive on average than those marketed at men.
2. Approximately 40 per cent of girls in the UK have used toilet roll because
   they couldn't afford sanitary products.
3. In Wales Liberal Democrat Education Minister, Kirsty Williams, this year
   announced a scheme to provide sanitary products to girls across primary and
   secondary schools and colleges.
4. Tampons and towels are currently taxed as a non-essential item, with the
   rate set at five per cent in the UK.
5. 2019 figures show that the median pay gap this year was 11.9 per cent.
6. Survivors of sexual assault are being turned away from accessing vital
   support services; the Istanbul Convention says there should be at least 150
   Rape Crisis Centres in England and Wales, but currently there are only 44;
   Campaigner Fern Champion's petition on the issue has over 150,000 signatures.
7. Overall just 32 per cent of MPs are women and there are significant
   variations between parties.
8. The impact of inequality, prejudice, and discrimination is multiplied for
   women who are disabled, BAME, LGBT+, or from other disadvantaged backgrounds
   or groups.
9. Jo Swinson fought to introduce gender pay gap reporting for large companies
   when she was a Minister in the Coalition Government; Liberal Democrats were
   the first party to lay a Parliamentary motion on the issue of period poverty
   and Layla Moran's 2019 motion has garnered cross-party support; Christine
   Jardine's Gender-based Pricing (Prohibition) Bill aimed to combat the price
   gap, but the Conservative Government did not give the Bill their backing; Wera
   Hobhouse's motion urging the government to bring the Istanbul Convention into
   UK law has broad cross-party support.

Conference believes that:

1. The gender price gap contributes to a 'double whammy' when partnered with
   the gender pay gap that women continue to face.
2. Menstrual hygiene should be considered a human right.
3. The government is neglecting people across this country by failing to
   guarantee the right to justice and support for survivors of sexual assault.
4. The UK needs more women in Parliament to successfully address the issues
   that face contemporary society, including those of inequality.

Conference reaffirms the Liberal Democrat commitment to:

1. Extending the Equality Act to all companies with over 250 employees or those
   who receive public funds, requiring them to monitor and publish data on
   diversity employment levels and pay gaps.
2. Requiring diversity in public appointments and government procurement,
   including at senior level.
3. Ensuring all women have access to affordable, good-quality sexual and
   reproductive health care and services, including by doing all we can to
   support the people of Northern Ireland to have access to abortion facilities at
   home.

Conference calls for:

1. The UK government, and those of all other EU member states, to ratify and
   bring into law the Istanbul Convention.
2. The government to roll out free sanitary products to schools, hospitals,
   hostels, shelters, libraries, leisure centres, GP surgeries, food banks,
   colleges and universities.
3. The government to work within the EU to remove the VAT on sanitary products
   across all Member States, including the UK.
4. The government introduce legislation to scrap the gender price gap on all
   products.
5. The government to require large companies to publicly publish their parental
   leave policies, including information regarding funding, to extend shared
   parental leave to self-employed fathers, ensure shared parental leave is a day
   one right, and give fathers an additional four weeks of use-it-or-lose-it
   paternity leave.
6. The Liberal Democrats, and all political parties, to implement Section 106
   of the Equality Act 2010, publishing their candidate diversity data; and for
   parental and carer leave entitlements for parliamentarians to be strengthened
   with provisions to be made to ensure constituents continue to be represented
   during these periods of leave.

**Line numbers in this Lib Dem Digital version do not match line numbers in
  Agenda. Some formatting is changed for Github. The published Agenda, Conference
  Extra and Conference Daily are always the canonical source of information**

